so here's uh so here's what we're gonna
do i'm gonna teach you guys manipura
mantra meditation
so i think a lot of the themes today
have been around emotional processing
and digestion
so i've been doing a little bit of
research about how to process emotions
through meditation
so what i'm going to share with you all
today is not really um
it's not really like scientific
so i haven't seen really any studies
that suggest
that
you know what i'm about to teach all is
like actually effective
and at the same time i think i've had a
lot of good personal experiences with
chakra meditation
i've taught it to patients and things
like that that feel like it helps
so what we're going to do today is
manipura chakra mantra meditation so let
me explain a couple of things
so the manipura chakra is your navel
chakra and this is the
chakra chakra whatever
of your energetic system your spiritual
energetic system that governs digestion
so when i think about emotional problems
i think about digestive blocks
for emotions so if you think about a
process of like psychotherapy what tends
to happen is people will have some kind
of blockage of emotion and when you do
therapy with someone they'll have like a
breakthrough in therapy that tends to
come with an up rushing of emotion
and then you kind of like process it
whatever that means and then like people
feel better afterwards so even though
the process of psychotherapy involves
experiencing oftentimes a lot of
negative emotions people will describe
the process as feeling lighter freer
you know they feel healthier afterward
even though that it's like a lot of
negative emotion
and somehow it's therapeutic
another good example of this is funerals
so like if you look at the process of a
funeral what happens is we basically all
get together and we experience a lot of
sense of like loss and sadness and grief
and then after the funeral people start
to like feel better right some people
kind of stay stuck but generally
speaking funerals are like part of the
reason we have them is because they help
us process those negative emotions
so our digestion capability it comes
from the manipura chakra so this
involves physical digestion as well as
emotional digestion so when i'm trying
to help people digest their emotions and
so i think a big part of this if we're
thinking about if you're being held
emotionally hostage
digesting that emotion
should in theory help you be freer from
like whatever it's chaining you to right
does that make sense so like that
emotional energy is what's holding you
back
so i think a lot of things that we
talked about today in terms of being
able to go outside you know being held
back by like being an emotional hostage
um you know being stuck addicted to
video games or technology like there's
all kinds of emotions that we don't know
how to get rid of
so hopefully this technique will help
okay
so we're going to start by sitting up
straight so i want your spine to be
straight and what we're going to start
with is navel breathing okay or belly
breathing or abdominal breathing so sit
up straight
and then what i want you all to do is
close your eyes
take a moment to notice your breath
just slow deep breaths
so what we're going to do today
is as we breathe we're going to expand
our abdomen and contract our abdomen
and after we do that we're going to add
a second layer
of observing the breath
travel from our nose
all the way through our chest and
almost into our abdomen
we exhale we're going to feel that
pressure and that heat
sort of coming out of the abdomen
and then for the third phase of the
practice
after each
as we're on a full breath we will use
the the mantra
so just repeat in your mind or say it
out out yeah repeat in your mind
or as you exhale you can say ram
so we'll use that mantra
okay so for the first phase what i want
you to do is we're going to do about
five breaths so as you breathe in expand
your abdomen
push your belly out
as you exhale
contract the abdomen
breathe in
and as you exhale
contract the abdomen
breathe in
and exhale
breath number four breathe in
and exhale and contract
and breath number five breathe in
exhale and contract
and now for the next phase you can go
ahead and continue breathing at a rate
that's comfortable
for the next phase as you breathe in i
want you to imagine the cool air
entering your nose
and follow that sensation of coolness
all the way through your chest into your
abdomen and even to the point of your
navel
so breathe in
feel that air coming in and and going
all the way from your nose to your navel
and then exhale
and feel that heat leaving
so breathe in again
and follow almost a channel of energy
from your nose all the way to your navel
and exhale
and the reverse flow of warmth
breathe in
follow the breath down to the navel
and exhale
let the heat rise up and out of you
it may help to breathe in very slowly to
really follow that channel of air
so very slow breath
next and out very slow
another slow breath in
and out
now we'll begin the third phase of the
practice
there are two options for this phase
we'll kind of do either one or we'll do
both
so now we're going to continue with the
breath
but as you exhale
i want you to listen to the sound of the
exhalation
and hear the ram
as your breath leaves your body
so breathe in
and then as you exhale hear the
the sound of ram in your exhalation
inhale again
and exhale
do two more rounds at your own pace
breathing in slowly
and exhaling slowly
following the breath to your navel and
listening for the sound of ram
this
and now the second option if that was
difficult for you
is to breathe in
and as you exhale repeat in your mind
ram
breathe in
and repeat in your mind
[Music]
and now try it out loud with me
take a deep breath in feel the navel
expand
and instead of exhaling just chant
two more rounds
deep breath in
[Music]
feel that vibration in your abdomen
last round
slow deep breath
raw
[Music]
and now in this space
notice the freeing from emotion
notice how distant your anxieties
your fears
even your joy
your pride
they're all distant now far away
that for most of our life we are filled
with emotions
they swirl through us
wreaking havoc on our mind
on our behaviors on our relationships
that we try really hard to block out the
torrent of what we feel
we numb ourselves
with videos
shows
games
drugs
all to deal with these little things we
call emotions
you don't need to do any of those things
do this practice
focus on the navel
breathe into it and chant
or listen to ram
or repeat it silently in your head
during the practice all three are okay
each one is suited to a different
cognitive temperament
do you like to chant
or do you like to listen
and now give thanks
give thanks to yourself for
participating in the
practice for the universe for giving you
this opportunity
and recognize that it's time to return
to your regular life
go ahead and open your eyes
so i've missed meditation i've missed
meditating with you guys
now i don't want to return well then
you're doing it right
so let me explain to y'all for those of
you that don't want to return to life
after meditation
now you understand the point
so when you don't want to return you
should continue to practice go ahead and
return
and then practice tomorrow and practice
the next day and each time you'll return
each time it'll be a trauma
and practice and practice and practice
and then one day something magical will
happen
when you return to life you'll bring the
meditation with you
and then even though you're living life
you will be in that space of meditation
and that is the foundation of
enlightenment
to be in that space as you live life
you'll begin to realize that that's
actually the most natural way to live
life
you've forgotten how to do it
so return
and one day when you return you're going
to bring back a souvenir
and that's the day your life will change